# From the Taskbar Icon

Opus can add an icon to the taskbar notification area (also called the "tray" or "systray" icon), and you can configure what happens when you double-click it. You can also edit the [context menu](/Manual/customize/the_customize_dialog/context_menus.md) that's shown when you right-click it.

Note that Windows will probably hide the icon and move it to the overflow area by default. If you want the icon to always be visible (which makes the double-click options on this page more useful) you will need to tell Windows to show it all the time.

- **Add icon to taskbar notification area**: Enables the taskbar icon.
- **Do nothing on double-click**: Nothing will happen if you double-click the icon - but you can right-click it to use the context menu.
- **Bring the last active Lister to the front**: If there are one or more Listers already open, a double-click on the taskbar icon will bring to the front the one you used most recently. If no Listers are open a new one is opened using the Default Lister settings. If you are using Windows 10's *virtual desktops* feature, only windows on the currently active desktop will be considered, unless you turn off the advanced **[Advanced](../miscellaneous/advanced_options.md)** setting.
- **Open the Default Lister**: Opens a new Lister using the settings for the [Default Lister](/Manual/basic_concepts/the_lister/the_default_lister.md).
- **Open a saved Lister layout**: Opens a saved [Lister layout](/Manual/basic_concepts/the_lister/layouts/README.md). If you turn on the **Close existing Listers** option then any existing Listers will be closed before opening the layout - if this is off, existing Listers will be unaffected.
- **Run a command**: Lets you enter a command to be run whenever the desktop is double-clicked. This can be used to perform more complex actions including running external programs. This must be a command that would make sense on a button or hotkey. You can use [Opus internal commands](/Manual/customize/creating_your_own_buttons/internal_command_arguments.md) or external programs (passing arguments to them using the [standard control codes](/Manual/customize/creating_your_own_buttons/passing_files_to_external_programs.md)). If you want to run more than a simple single-line command, you can create a more complicated [user-defined command](/Manual/customize/creating_your_own_buttons/user-defined_commands.md) and then specify the name of the user command here.
