A number of variables are available to the evaluator in this context. Note that some are only applicable to toolbars in the [standalone image viewer](/Manual/additional_functionality/viewing_images/RAEDME.md), and some only apply to Lister toolbars.

\<commandtable columns="3"\> \$\$ Variable \$\$ Type \$\$ Description \$\$ dest \$\$ *path* \$\$ The current destination path. \$\$ dest_shell \$\$ *bool* \$\$ **True** if the destination is a shell (virtual) folder hosted by Explorer, otherwise **false**. \$\$ expanded \$\$ *uint* \$\$ Returns the number of expanded directories. \$\$ fullscreen \$\$ *bool* \$\$ *Viewer only*. **True** if the viewer is fullscreen, otherwise **false**. \$\$ key_repeat \$\$ *bool* \$\$ **True** if the function was launched from a repeated key press (i.e. the key was held down). \$\$ seldirs \$\$ *uint* \$\$ Returns the number of selected directories. \$\$ selfiles \$\$ *uint* \$\$ Returns the number of selected files. \$\$ selimage \$\$ *bool* \$\$ *Viewer only*. **True** if an area of the image has been selected, **false** otherwise. \$\$ selitems \$\$ *uint* \$\$ Returns the total number of selected items. \$\$ source \$\$ *path* \$\$ The current source path. \$\$ source_shell \$\$ *bool* \$\$ **True** if the source is a shell (virtual) folder hosted by Explorer, otherwise **false**. \$\$ totaldirs \$\$ *uint* \$\$ Returns the total number of directories. \$\$ totalfiles \$\$ *uint* \$\$ Returns the total number of files. \$\$ totalitems \$\$ *uint* \$\$ Returns the total number of items. \$\$ viewmode \$\$ *str* \$\$ Returns the current view mode in the file display. Values are **largeicons**, **smallicons**, **list**, **details**, **power**, **thumbnails** and **tiles**. \</commandtable\>

As well as the above variables, you can also use [evaluator functions](/Manual/reference/evaluator/RAEDME.md) like [ischecked](/Manual/reference/evaluator/ischecked.md) and [isenabled](/Manual/reference/evaluator/isenabled.md) to query other information about the state of the Lister.
