# Viewer Pane

This page contains options that affect the [Lister viewer pane](/Manual/basic_concepts/the_lister/viewer_pane.md). Changes you make here don't affect the [standalone image viewer](/Manual/additional_functionality/viewing_images/README.md) - there are separate pages for those options.

- **Accelerated scrolling while dragging**: Grabbing the image with the mouse will move the image faster, such that you only have to move the mouse a small amount to scroll the entire image. If it's turned off, you'll get 1:1 movement where the part of the image you drag will stay under the mouse. Holding <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> while dragging will also switch modes, in case you sometimes need both.
- **Automatically refresh image when file changes**: Opus will monitor the currently viewed file, and refresh the display of it if it changes.
- **Automatically select next file when viewed image is deleted**: If the image you are currently viewing is deleted, Opus will automatically select the next file in the file display. This lets you quickly weed out a large collection of pictures using only the keyboard - click on the first file to view, press <kbd>Down</kbd> if you want to keep it, or <kbd>Del</kbd> if you want to delete or (in which case Opus will automatically move on to the next file). You can also do this sort of thing using [marking](/Manual/additional_functionality/viewing_images/image_marking.md).
- **Display shell thumbnails**: If nothing else (except the hex viewer) can display a file, ask the Windows shell to generate a thumbnail for it and display that in the viewer pane. Explorer's viewer pane also does this and it is useful for file formats that have thumbnail providers but no viewers. Shell thumbnails and icons are unavailable within archives and VFS plugins. Changes to the setting affect the next file loaded by the viewer pane.
- **Display shell icons**: Similar to the **Display shell thumbnails** option, except it displays the file's icon instead of its thumbnail. Thumbnails are given priority if both options are enabled.
- **Gamma-correct pictures**: Use this option if you need to adjust the gamma of images for proper color reproduction on your monitor.
- **Hide scrollbars**: The viewer won't display scrollbars even if the image is too large to fit in the display. You can pan around an image with the cursor keys, and using the mouse (depending on the option set below). Some viewer plugins may not support this option.
- **Scroll with left mouse button**: Modifies the default behavior of the left mouse button when you click on the image. If this option is turned on you can click the left mouse button on the image and drag it to pan around the display, and if you hold the <kbd>Shift</kbd> key down when you click, you can drag an area of the image to select it for copying to the clipboard. With this option turned off, these behaviors are reversed - you would need to hold the <kbd>Shift</kbd> key down to pan the image.
  - **Expand and scroll**: If the image is displayed at a reduced size (e.g. the zoom level is set to *Fit to Page*) then clicking and holding the mouse button will expand the image to full size.
  - **Expand and scroll (Left double-click)**: The expand/scroll mode will be triggered on a double-click instead of a single click.
- **Show control bar**: Causes a toolbar to be displayed at the bottom of the viewer panel, which contains buttons for commonly used functions.
- **Use EXIF information to auto-rotate pictures**: Most modern digital cameras contain an orientation sensor that records into the image the orientation of the camera when the picture was taken. If this option is turned on Opus will read the orientation information from the image and automatically rotate the displayed picture so that it appears the right way up. The actual image file on disk is not modified, only the display in the viewer.
