# Recent

The **Recent** internal command can be used to:

- Display a dynamic list of your [Recent folders](/Manual/basic_concepts/the_lister/navigation/recent_and_history_lists.md)
- Filter the recent to display only folders beneath a certain path
- Clear the Recent list

**Command Arguments:** 

<table>
<thead><tr><th>
Argument</th><th>
Type</th><th>
Possible values</th><th>
Description
</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

*(no argument)*</td><td>
-</td><td>
-</td><td>

Displays a dynamically generated list of your [recently visited folders](/Manual/basic_concepts/the_lister/navigation/recent_and_history_lists.md) - you can navigate to a folder simply by selecting it from this list. Acts as a [dynamic button](/Manual/customize/creating_your_own_buttons/editing_the_toolbar/dynamic_buttons/README.md).

Some of the arguments of this command can modify the appearance and behaviour of the dynamic list.

*Example:* `Recent`
</td></tr><tr><td>
CLEAR</td><td>
/S</td><td>

*(no value)*</td><td>

Clears the recent folders list.

*Example:* `Recent CLEAR`
</td></tr><tr><td>
COPY</td><td>
/O</td><td>

\<Copy command arguments\></td><td>

Selecting a folder from the recent list will trigger the **Copy** command with the specified arguments. For example, you could have one drop-down recent list for **Copy** and another for **Move**, using different arguments. Note that if more than one **Copy** command argument is specified they must be enclosed in quotes.

*Example:* `Recent COPY`  
*Example:* `Recent COPY MOVE`
</td></tr><tr><td>
HEADING</td><td>
/O</td><td>

*(no value)*</td><td>

When used with commands which generate a list of items (see [dynamic buttons](/Manual/customize/creating_your_own_buttons/editing_the_toolbar/dynamic_buttons/README.md)), the **HEADING** argument adds a small heading at the start of the list. The heading will be hidden when the list is empty. Headings only happen for commands which potentially generate multiple items at the same level as the button itself.

When **HEADING** is used by itself, without specifying a text value, the main button's label text is used for the heading.

*Example:* `Recent HEADING`
</td></tr><tr><td>
</td><td>
</td><td>

*\<heading text\>*</td><td>

You can specify the heading text if you want it to be different to the button's label.

*Example:* `Recent HEADING="Recent Paths"`
</td></tr><tr><td>
KEYARGS</td><td>
/K/M</td><td>

*\<qualifier:arguments\> ...*</td><td>

When displaying the recent list, this argument lets you assign different behaviour to the items in the list if a qualifier key is held down. This is a multiple value argument - for each qualifier key combination listed, you can define a separate set of arguments that will be used when the item in the list is selected.

For example, you could configure your Recent menu to open folders in a new tab by default, but in a new Lister if the <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> key were held down.

The qualifier part of the value consists of one or more keywords that represent the qualifier keys - **ctrl**, **shift** and **alt**. These can be combined, for example **ctrlshift** means that both the <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> and <kbd>Shift</kbd> keys must be held down. You can also use the keyword **none** to indicate arguments that are applied when no qualifiers are held.

You can also assign the **Copy** command to a particular key combination; selecting an item from the recent list with the appropriate key held down would then copy (or move) selected files to the recent location.

*Example:* `Recent KEYARGS "ctrl:NEW" "shift:Copy MOVE" "none:NEWTAB=findexisting"`
</td></tr><tr><td>
MULTIFUNC</td><td>
/O</td><td>

*(no value)*</td><td>

The generated list of recent folders will be [multiple function buttons](/Manual/customize/creating_your_own_buttons/editing_the_toolbar/multiple_function_buttons.md) (three-button buttons) - clicking them with the left mouse button will act as if **OPENINLEFT** were set, the right button will act as if **OPENINRIGHT** were set, and the middle mouse button will act as if **NEW** were set.

*Example:* `Recent MULTIFUNC`
</td></tr><tr><td>
</td><td>
</td><td>

**tabs**</td><td>

Similar to the above except the left and right mouse button functions will open a new tab on the appropriate side of the Lister. You can control how new tabs are opened with the **NEWTAB** argument.

*Example:* `Recent MULTIFUNC=tabs`
</td></tr><tr><td>
NAMESONLY</td><td>
/S</td><td>

*(no value)*</td><td>

Each item in the list will only display its respective folder's name, not the full path. Full paths are displayed in tooltips instead.

*Example:* `Recent NAMESONLY`
</td></tr><tr><td>
NEW</td><td>
/S</td><td>

*(no value)*</td><td>

Recent folders selected from the list generated by this command will open in a new Lister instead of the current one.

*Example:* `Recent NEW`
</td></tr><tr><td>
NEWTAB</td><td>
/O</td><td>

*(no value)*</td><td>

Recent folders selected from the list generated by this command will open in a [new tab](/Manual/basic_concepts/the_lister/tabs/README.md).

*Example:* `Recent NEWTAB`
</td></tr><tr><td>
</td><td>
</td><td>

**deflister**</td><td>

If no lister exists, the Default Lister will open with an additional tab for the folder. If a lister exists, the folder will open normally in a new tab within the existing lister.

*Example:* `Recent NEWTAB=deflister`
</td></tr><tr><td>
</td><td>
</td><td>

**findexisting**</td><td>

Look for the folder in an existing tab before opening a new one. If found, the existing tab will be brought to the front; otherwise a new tab will be opened. The active tab is checked first, and nothing will happen if the active tab already displays the selected path.

*Example:* `Recent NEWTAB=findexisting`
</td></tr><tr><td>
</td><td>
</td><td>

**findinactive**</td><td>

Like **findexisting**, except that if the active tab already has the selected path then a new tab will be opened. Intended for buttons which switch to existing tabs to reduce clutter while retaining the ability to open a second tab for the same folder when needed.

*Example:* `Recent NEWTAB=findinactive`
</td></tr><tr><td>
</td><td>
</td><td>

**nofocus**</td><td>

New tabs opened by recent folders selected from the list will not be brought to the front.

*Example:* `Recent NEWTAB=nofocus OPENINDUAL`
</td></tr><tr><td>
</td><td>
</td><td>

**tofront**</td><td>

If the folder was found in an existing tab, bring that tab to the front (only used with **findexisting**).

*Example:* `Recent NEWTAB=findexisting,tofront`
</td></tr><tr><td>
NOLABEL</td><td>
/S</td><td>

*(no value)*</td><td>

The recent list displayed by this command will not show any labels for the folders.

*Example:* `Recent NOLABEL`
</td></tr><tr><td>
OPENINDEST</td><td>
/S</td><td>

*(no value)*</td><td>

Recent folders selected from the list will open in the destination file display or Lister.

*Example:* `Recent OPENINDEST`
</td></tr><tr><td>
OPENINDUAL</td><td>
/S</td><td>

*(no value)*</td><td>

Recent folders selected from the list will open in the other file display of a dual-display Lister. The Lister will be set to dual-display mode if it isn't in that mode already.

*Example:* `Recent OPENINDUAL`
</td></tr><tr><td>
OPENINLEFT</td><td>
/S</td><td>

*(no value)*</td><td>

Recent folders will open in the left-hand (or top) display of a dual-display Lister.

*Example:* `Recent KEYARGS none:OPENINLEFT ctrl:OPENINRIGHT`
</td></tr><tr><td>
OPENINRIGHT</td><td>
/S</td><td>

*(no value)*</td><td>

Recent folders will open in the right-hand (or bottom) display of a dual-display Lister.

*Example:* `Recent NEWTAB OPENINRIGHT`
</td></tr><tr><td>
PATH</td><td>
</td><td>

*\<path\>*</td><td>

Filters the displayed recent list to only show folders matching or below the specified path. This is the default argument for the **Recent** command and so you do not need to specify the **PATH** keyword. Make sure you enclose the path in quotes if it contains spaces.

\`\`Recent C:\\\`
</td></tr><tr><td>
SHOWICONS</td><td>
/S</td><td>

*(no value)*</td><td>

The recent list displayed by this command will display icons for the items within it. Note that the button that contains the **Recent** command must also have its **Show image** option turned on.

*Example:* `Recent SHOWICONS`
</td></tr><tr><td>
USEQUALKEYS</td><td>
/S</td><td>

*(no value)*</td><td>

Activates pre-configured behaviour for the main qualifier keys - **Control** will open the recent folder in the dual-display, **Shift** in a new Lister and **Alt** in a new tab.

This is equivalent to `Recent KEYARGS ctrl:OPENINDUAL shift:NEW alt:NEWTAB`.

*Example:* `Recent USEQUALKEYS`
</td></tr></tbody>
</table>

