# Renaming Files

This page contains options that control how the [inline rename](/Manual/file_operations/renaming_files/inline_rename.md) function behaves.

- **Automatically number files when names clash**: When using inline rename, if you try to rename a file to a name that is already in use, this option causes Opus to automatically append a number to the new filename. For example, if you enter the new name `Manuscript.txt` and a file of that name already existed, Opus would automatically rename the file to \<nobr\>`Manuscript (1).txt`\</nobr\> instead of showing an error.
- **Automatic suggestion popups**: Opus will keep a history of filenames you've typed previously and show them in a popup list as you type a name. Even if this option is turned off, you can still show the suggestion list by pressing <kbd>Ctrl+Space</kbd>.
- **Retain cursor position when moving to next/previous file**: When this option is on and you press the <kbd>Up</kbd> or <kbd>Down</kbd> keys to move from one file to another in inline rename mode, the cursor position within the file will be maintained. See the [Inline Rename](/Manual/file_operations/renaming_files/inline_rename.md) section for a more detailed discussion of this subject.
- **Rename all selected files at once**: When this option is turned on and you start an inline rename with more than one file selected, all selected files are renamed using the new name you enter. Numbers are added to the end of the second and subsequent files to make them end up with unique names. This emulates the behaviour of Windows File Explorer.
- **Default selection mode**: This lets you change which part of the filename (if any) is automatically selected, or where the cursor is positioned, when inline rename mode begins. If the **Retain cursor position** option is turned on, the selection will also be applied to subsequent files as you move through the list with the <kbd>Up</kbd> or <kbd>Down</kbd> keys.
